= Module `GraphEngine.Client` =

Provides client-side communication instance. In a GraphEngine application,
a client is by-default not a communication instance -- for that it does not
possess message handling capabilities. `GraphEngine.Client` extends both the
client and the server to support client-side message handling through a single
messaging endpoint, while preserving the ability to access the whole memory
cloud.

When a client communication instance starts, it connects to the server with
a customizable messaging endpoint. The endpoint should implement the interface
`IMessagePassingEndpoint`, but is not limited to using native Trinity protocol.
Therefore we could implement the interface with any messaging transport, e.g.
WCF, gRPC etc. Once the endpoint establishes connection, the client registers
itself at the destination server with a randomly generated cookie. The server
keeps track of the connected clients, and assigns a TTL value to each client.
The server does not initiate new connections to the clients, but rather,
responds to client-side polling. New client-going messages are first queued at
the server, and piggybacked during polling. This allows a client to send
asynchronous messages, without being blocked by a single request/response pair
on the endpoint.

This module also implements `MemoryCloud` for both client and server. The
server side uses `HostedMemoryCloud: FixedMemoryCloud` and provides
aforementioned client-registration services. The client side uses
`ClientMemoryCloud: MemoryCloud`, which takes a single message passing endpoint
(rather than connecting to every remote storage in the cluster), and send all
messages as redirected messages, and all key-value store operations as custom
remote calls, which are handled in `TrinityClientModule`.
